Doge is dead. Elon Musk's attempted
infiltration of the American government
has been halted 8 months earlier than
originally planned. The Department of
Government Efficiency was disbanded this
week in a move which is perhaps
unsurprising given the always chaotic
Trump administration.
As someone who leans very far to the
left, I may be inclined to take this
news as an outright win. But when I look
at the story on ground news, I can get a
more holistic understanding of this
story. Unfortunately, the end of Doge is
not entirely comprehensive. I see that
outlets on the left are highlighting
Doge's lack of transparency and
generally destructive approach, but
ground news also shows me new
information that I would have otherwise
missed. Right-leaning reporting points
out that Doge actually lives on with its
policies and personnel now existing in
other parts of the Trump administration.
So, as much as I would love to say that
Doge was an outright and embarrassing
failure, Ground News helps me
understand, this is not entirely true.
This is a great example of why I love
Ground News. It's not that I want to
read more conservative news. I want the
full story, including the information
that doesn't just reinforce my own
personal desires or opinions. Viewers of
this channel may have noticed a pattern
this year. Ground News has been my only
sponsor. That's because I'm not
interested in promoting some plastic
gadget of the month or the latest
attention sucking mobile game. I
genuinely believe in the work that the
team at Ground News is doing, and I
believe more people should be using the
service. Unlike other platforms, they
don't push or suppress stories to
influence your perception of the world.
Their platform prioritizes, giving
readers full transparency on today's
issues by pulling in the world's
perspectives on them, providing sources
histories of failing fact checks, and
even who's benefiting from you believing
their version of the story. When it
comes to news, finding the truth is
getting more difficult every day. I
sincerely believe Ground News can help
us write the ship on this whole issue.
Ground News is fully independent and
supported by readers like us, but I
partnered with them to get my viewers
40% off the same Vantage plan I've been
using. Go to ground.news/horses.
Click the link in my description or scan
my QR code to get unlimited access for
$5 a month. By signing up, you're
directly supporting the work I do here
and your ability to think critically.
To reach for hope in our current moment
may be for the corpse of a dead man who
wishes to smell the blooms of summer. It
may be for the ant who wishes to fly
like a raptor. To reach for hope may
feel like such an impossibility.
There are tremendous hurricanes of
forces destructing [music] hope at every
daybreak. The men of power and capital
wish to maintain us as a species not of
forward individuation but of
complacency. These powered few wish to
puppet our lives on the strings of their
money and ambitions.
We have too been scorned by past visions
of hope, which have grown weakly, which
have been smothered and borne nothing
unto our souls, which have faltered with
time, and grown to poison our ideas.
To regard images of the world, we are
met with each day as the darkest night,
so extremely that the concept of a
better future emerges more fictional
than real. Amidst [music] these
assaults, we are castles of hope which
have been sieged and invaded, corrupted,
pillaged, and raped on our inside,
perhaps. But our great walls still
stand, and our duty is to expel the
invaders rather than capitulate
entirely.
Attacks on our goodness, we must
remember, are weak and fallible when
pushed against our truly unstoppable
human spirit.
There is no such violence which is so
powerful that it may defeat the infinite
future. Hope can prevail, but we must
choose it. So
the first of our priorities must be to
understand hope truly, earnestly and
deeply. Let us reject the notion of hope
as some passive transient thing which
exists with all the gust of a stone
sitting in a garden. To hope is not to
lay idally and expect great outcomes or
to anticipate goodness as some self-born
event. This is not hoping. This is
wishing and expecting.
Hope is not a task for the idol. It must
have the dimension of doing, of taking
part in the world and acting with the
spirit. Hope and action are inseparable
parts of one another. Only from hope may
we act. Within true hope we find a
determination and willingness to engage
in the world to build our own futures.
Hope is a path to the greater place but
it is a path we must elect to walk on.
It is not a small feeling but an
activity.
Hope shall further not be some temporary
sensation satisfied by mundane events.
It is much more permanent and profound.
It is an openness to the idea of not now
but yet. It is a permanent receptivity
to both the pain and glory of the
future, to the fullness of the world,
and to the fact that within such
fullness, a good must certainly exist.
Reason, oh reason, and logical thought,
these are things which have their place
in the procedures of our lives. But like
anything that nourishes us, too much can
spoil. It is a marvel how inconsistently
the world acts according to reason and
logic. Each and every day we are struck
by people and events which come to pass
in spite of what should have happened.
Logic cannot predict all things. It
cannot predict the newest of things.
Those newest of things which spring into
existence every moment we breathe.
In hope, we find ourselves prepared to
thrive when reason falters, to be ready
for a future which will surely defy the
mechanical realities of our today. Hope
is an openness to all things. It can
hear frequencies which reason cannot. It
is the assurance that despite any odds,
the events of today need not add up to
those of tomorrow.
We should not hope for some target. This
is not hope. in fact, but to hope, for
such precision is to wish. The world
mutates and changes around us, and so
our hope must be flexible. Let us not
pollute our hopes with specificity, and
let us instead marvel at the simplicity
of what is not yet. A loving wife, dear
friends, a grander home. These specific
wishes are made of crude material and
they invite fear when fate seems to
whisper that they are further than we
once felt. These things are a mask of
what we truly yearn for that is
happiness.
The hope for simple happiness is not
only adequate but it is magnificent.
This desire is unpolluted and it is one
which flexes and bends as the winds of
the world move upon it with hope. The
vague and the abstract meet us with
great utility.
It is too often that we approach hope in
a backwards direction. We must not ask
what we hope for, but where we hope
from. A man loses hope not because of
circumstances without, but because of
those within. We must seek for a version
of not yet, which is strong and
unfragile to the world around it. We
must seek hope as a fundamental way of
being rather than a way of handling what
already is. We should understand the
world and ourselves as places where hope
can exist.
A future with flexible and permanent
hope forms a steady ground under our
feet and a road in front of our eyes. We
may carry forward as active participants
in the world onwards towards some great
future, some great and abstract paradise
that is gorgeous because of its
indefinite shape.
Each day I am struck by the
individualism of our western society.
There is so much motivation in this
world and it is so much focused on
oneself. But of course it can only be
this way. The individual must achieve,
must better themsel, must succeed for
their own sake.
Hope is not an individual act. It is the
song of the collective. Inherent to hope
is the expectation of events and
circumstances which are out of one's own
control. Hope demands not for one but
for all, and there it has such beauty.
It is a recognition of what one must do,
of the possibility to seize one's
future, while still understanding the
multitude of forces which act upon that
same future. It is to welcome all that
may be, everyone that may be. To hope is
to appreciate fully the texture of a
society. Hope is not a lit match, but it
is a fire for all to share.
Still, our plague of hopelessness stems
not only from misunderstanding. No, our
depression finds its birth in many dark
and separate winters.
The world around us screams each day,
"Why hope? What could you hope for?" And
it assaults us with grand images of
suffering and despair of the goblins
which feed off our collective sorrow.
These goblins have implored each man in
violence and capital to abandon living
in favor of surviving. We are told that
now is all, that the future is a bleak
story which has already been written for
us.
Work, toil, and worry for your today so
that we may abdicate tomorrow to our
so-called elites. It is easier for the
capitalist to function when we only have
circular days, lives which exist only to
fulfill their own needs.
If each man lets his days become
eclipsed by toil, monopolized by its own
nutrition, if we let our days offer only
sustenance for themselves, the great
gods of capital find their own tasks
made immensely more simple. What action
can we give to our not yet? What
problems could we create in the grand
plans of the elites if our present
demands us entirely?
The goblin of fear is another enemy of
hope. Within a climate of fear, we find
ourselves obedient and without the
courage to voice for progress. Fear
infects us to our cores. It infects even
our ability to think. It deteriorates
the imagination and suddenly our
what-ifs are mired in doom. It is a
suffocation which mutilates the vast
infinity of our futures into a narrow
single road. The action of fear may
offer us a sustainable future. But it is
one which has no horizon and no openness
to the new. Without an openness, there
can be no hope.
Hope is too an assault on our
sensibilities because it is a
fundamentally creative act. It is the
invitation and openness to the new. It
is the glory that something shall be
built which resembles in no way what
already exists. But our world with its
trappings discourages this radical form
of creativity and it instead insists on
the new being simply a permutation of
the old. Our world begs us for the new
only in so far as it is an acceptable
substitute or iteration on what came
before it.
The mutilation of our hope is a side
effect of this idea. We fear hope
because it requires us to not iterate
but to truly create. The hopeful future
is not a future which aligns with our
impressions of the present. It is
something new.
Our spirit of hope has further been
distracted by the clumsy prescriptions
of optimism and pessimism, both of which
alleviate man from his responsibility to
act. These modes of thinking are the
jurisdiction of the lazy.
To be optimistic or pessimistic is to
accept the future as already prescribed.
Things will either be good or they will
be bad. And so what reason does either
person have to act? What will be done is
already done.
The optimist sees the world as a place
of happiness and he ignores the
misfortune.
Hope acknowledges that we do not know
what the world will bring, but that
there is a vast expanse which we can
harness to bring about goodness despite
whatever else our days have in store.
Pessimism, like optimism, is too built
on the rejection of possibility.
For the pessimist, the world is a prison
of despair. These thinkers assume that
all hopes end in disappointment, and in
doing so, they mistake shallow
expectation for the truly infinite and
ever flexing spirit of hope.
These runs of thought are brothers, and
each offer us only a locked room for our
world. It is an easy place, and maybe it
is even a comfortable one. But it
rejects the fluidity, the chaos of time,
which is the bedrock of hope.
Even equipped as best as we can be
against such a depression, all people
will encounter moments and periods of
hopelessness.
Goals slip into the distance. Perceived
realities seem to dissolve like mists
into a pond. Such is our life. The great
tragedy of our days does not come from a
loss of hope, but from the loss of an
ability to hope. The loss of having
anything in this grand world for which
to hope. In those darkest hours, a
future paradise seems so distant and
untouchable that we forget that paradise
can even be an option. We see the future
and we see no possibilities.
There we have not lost only our
destination but we have too lost our
map.
It is in precisely these days which we
must understand hope as not a tool of
life but an existent part of the world
within us and without us. The world no
matter what turmoil it contains will
always have room for hope. The future
possesses all and the stirring of days
can never be strong enough to render
this untrue.
Our world is like a great forest in this
way. Even through the darkest of
winters, trees drop seeds and new life
creates itself. The darkest and most
crowded forest from which the canopy
blocks all light. Such a place still
creates new life in the deepest part of
this forest. A man may look to the
ground and he will invariably infinitely
find it littered with acorns. There will
always be room for the new.
Next I ask, who about us would enjoy the
feeling of fear? Of course there is
none, but of course fear comes parcel
with hope.
To hope is to embrace the unknown. And
within the unknown there always lurks
fear. We must take fear with hope in the
way that we take all other fear. The
summer brings warmth and ecstasy, and it
brings wasps and spiders. To stand under
the night sky and stare at the stars is
to marvel at the beauty of our universe.
It is also to stand among the most
nocturnal and hunting predators.
I can scarcely imagine a more pristine
time than a day in the sun and a night
under the stars. I cannot imagine a more
pristine thing than hope.
There is indeed an inherent darkness to
hope. It springs forward from pain,
suffering, and misery. These things must
exist for hope to exist. The society of
utopia has no utility for hope. Why
should hope be when all is perfect? But
it is a fact that such a place does not
exist. Our world has texture. So much
beautiful and painful texture if we can
only see it. Just like hope requires us
to be open to what is not yet, hope
requires openness towards what is, we
must insist on hope despite what is
around us and because of what is around
us. Inviting hope is to inviting
darkness.
So to have hope we must be brave. As
hope becomes action and we set out to
begin something a new we can have no
idea of the results or consequences.
The spectre of guilt may emerge from the
shadows of brave action and such is the
heavy burden that man must carry when he
walks with hope. Oh, it is such a heavy
burden to know that we may act well and
create pain. But it pales next to the
heft of a rancid life of existence that
rejects possibility. Without
possibility, we may jump into our own
graves. And I should much rather grapple
with guilt than a living death. Guilt we
can handle. How greatly we can handle
guilt is a marvel of humanood. We are
powerful against guilt. Humans have been
granted the incredible and often ignored
gift of forgiveness.
In forgiveness to ourselves, we
recognize that the world creates
unforeseeable events and consequences.
And we revitalize our openness to the
new. We restore our ability to hope. To
forgive is not only a talent of human
but a necessity. One can imagine the
infinite paralysis which would occur
should we refuse our right to forgive.
To ignore forgiveness is to sever the
branches of our tree right at the stump.
It is to reject possibility and to
welcome inaction.
Forgiveness is the domain of the past
and hope of the future. And together we
have eternity. We hope so. We act so we
may forgive. And we hope a new.
We have much anxiety. Let hope be its
opposite and its antidote. Anxiety is a
fear of things which have not yet come
to pass. But why must we fear these
things? Why must we insist on the
badness of the future?
Let us instead rejoice as we welcome a
spring from our darkest winters. Let us
look to the future as something we can
build, not something which builds itself
around our complacence.
The past can inform our future, but
again we fall into the snare of the bad.
We regret that things did not go one way
and we assume that they will continue to
fall in that same direction. We become
incarcerated by the past, ignoring that
all of history is the story of change.
What once was need not be again. What
exists exists only to change. The rain
brings blooms. The bad may be the seed
of the good. We can say that the world
is a lonely place and that it acts as it
will. What an easy way this is to live,
easy and destructive. The hopeless man
is the inactive man who fulfills his own
beliefs in the world. He allows the
world to enact violence unto him and he
welcomes his own crushing only to then
view the entirety of life from under the
stone of oppression. But of course, the
world is cruel and torment if he has
lied down to welcome its violence.
Instead, let us work. Let us lift and
toil into the world so we may find hope
and strike down easy pessimism. All of
the world is a force, and it is one
which we must meet with strength.
Strength which springs from hope.
To have hope is to be free. What man of
us is all knowing and allseeing? What
arrogance and foolishness it requires to
say that one's future is a locked door?
The world is not so obedient as to obey
our expectation that all will be the
same as it ever was. We live an infinite
sea of possibilities.
Even our own selves remain a mystery
forever. Who knows what we will do as
the seasons and years turn over and
over? Who can say what butterflies our
cocoons create? How we respond to events
tomorrow may very well be unfathomable
to ourselves of today. When we recognize
this, suddenly we know we are not on
some predetermined course. We are not
objects waiting for our next rebound. It
is through a profound hope that we know
today is not tomorrow, that this year is
not next. Suddenly we become free beings
unshackled by arrogance and prophecy.
Let us live our life like a great team
during a season of baseball. That
excruciatingly long sport which offers
moments of boredom, peace, strife, and
exuberance. That sport wherein loss is
acceptable and destruction is not. Let
us lose the games we lose and let us win
those we should. Born out over the toils
of 162 games, our defeats vanish into
the summer and they do not mire our
winning season. It is on the wings of
hope which we [music] can carry
ourselves forward. It is with hope that
our defeats do not defeat us.
How lovely [music] it would be if
discovering hope were an easy thing.
What a paradise this could bring us. How
proud I could be if I discovered the
algorithm for hope. If only, if only
hope could be plucked like a ripe apple
from the trees of our days.
There is so [music] much fear in this
world, so much pain. There is such grand
suffering that to search for hope where
there is none requires a fundamental
realignment within the soul. No person
can say that hope [music] is easy. Hope
is a great and difficult labor. But it
is a great stupidity to declare strife
as reason for inaction.
So let us have hope forever. And in
those most grotesque of our days [music]
when none can be found, let us still
hope for hope itself.
[music]